The IPO market is very sentiment driven,
very momentum driven. It's a high alpha
type of product. So when there is a
market that is skewed toward growth and
investment, it tend to favor IPO for
sure. When the market becomes more
volatile or risk adverse, uh the IPOs
are the the one that get a bit more
challenging to execute.
>> So is it just me or have we been talking
about tariffs for like 30 episodes at
this point?
>> Yes. No, it's not you. Yeah, we have we
have I think it's in the headline of
like half of our half of our episodes.
Uh but I will say we we always talk
about tariffs in like a very like
obviously, you know, from the markets
point of view, the macroeconomy and
things like that. We don't talk too much
about like what it means for like
day-to-day people. Obviously, you know,
will it be felt in prices and you know,
we've seen it here and there and things
like that, but but something happened
the other day that I thought was
interesting just in my personal life,
which is that I was talking to somebody
who was like buying some furniture and
they said, "We got a call one day from
some shipping authority or port and they
were like, hey, your thing is here like
please pay the tariff." And they were
like, "What?" They were like, "Well, you
know, somebody's got to pay this tariff
because uh as of our, you know, as of
today, you know, because tariffs have
sort of gone into effect, but sort of
not." Sure. Obviously, you know, that's
one thing that people have been
discussing. And I guess apparently
somebody thought that they owed a tariff
on this. Now, they worked it out with
the company sort of that they were
buying it through, but you know, the
these were the first people that uh you
know, who weren't like trade lawyers,
who weren't you running some importing
exporting businesses I knew that was
like here directly is like you need to
pay a tariff today. That was the first
time that it happened to somebody that I
knew.
>> You know, I got a call from my mom
saying something similar that some piece
of furniture was crazy delayed and she
said it was because of tariffs. We're
going to dive into this a little bit
more, but before that, let's introduce
ourselves. I'm Gunjan Banerjee and this
is the Wall Street Journal's Take on the
Week
>> and I'm Telus Deeos. Uh, and yeah, let's
talk. We've got a few other things we
want to talk about. We want to talk
about banks. We want to talk about the
IPO market. We're going to have a really
big conversation about that. But let's
just talk about what happened with
tariffs this past week because obviously
it's theoretically big market news,
though maybe not. Uh the new deadline uh
is going to be August 1st for the
reciprocal tariffs. It's been moved
around. It's been pushed around, but
Trump says he's serious this time. No
extensions. August 1st deadline. To get
there, he sent around some letters.
Japan, South Korea got letters telling
them that they were going to have a 25%
uh rate. Um some other countries got
some news actually. Okay, this one's
kind of interesting. Brazil, Brazil got
a 50% tariff. And the reason cited
>> or one of the reasons cited was because
of the way that they had treated their
former president uh who's sort of a
Trump-like figure in the country. So
interesting.
>> Yeah. Not not purely for economic
reasons. So adding a political sort of
diplomatic element to the tariffs, which
normally I would think would spook the
market, but has it gun?
>> I mean, it's crazy. See, the S&P 500 is
up around 25%
from its 2025 closing low hit in April.
I mean, remember that market madness
that lasted a few weeks. Um, but now now
we're back at highs.
>> I barely remember that market. Seems
like a thousand years ago.
>> Um, I mean, I think a lot of this is due
to the AI trade just roaring back. Um,
it's due to Nvidia, which is now a $4
trillion company. It's back at a record.
I saw a really crazy stat out there,
which is that Nvidia is now worth as
much as the 214 smallest companies in
the S&P 500 combined. So, it's it's
worth as much as like half of the S&P
500 at this point,
>> just one company. Uh well,
>> well, I think this is this is part of
why we're not seeing tariff fears
reflected in the stock market, right?
And I'm curious if you think we'll see
banks sounding a little bit more alarm
about this next week. I know you've been
writing about this.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think we've got bank
earnings kicking off uh this coming
week. Uh the biggies, JP Morgan Chase,
Wells Fargo, Cityroup, Bank of America,
Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, America's
big big banks uh will be reporting. And
I don't think that those big banks are
going to necessarily be feeling it that
much. Now, I will say that the the large
bank stocks have have pretty
dramatically outperformed, and this is
something I'm going to be writing about,
you know, as we head into earnings uh
this this upcoming week. the the the
small bank stocks have pretty
dramatically underperformed and I think
that's because of of what we're seeing
in loan growth. When you look at
commercial and industrial loan demand,
uh uh it's just it's not really growing.
There was a bit of a pickup when
companies kind of drew down on their
credit lines. That means that they kind
of like borrowed a little extra cash,
little little walking around money uh
just for everything going on uh as we
like to say. But we're not seeing yet a
really big pickup in CNI, as we call it,
uh, loan growth from the banks. And, you
know, maybe that reflects the fact that
people still aren't making kind of like
big investments in, you know, reshoring
or whatever we think that might come out
of the other side of tariffs now that
we're through the budget. Look,
obviously there's some concerns about
the deficit element here. uh we've seen
what's happening with the dollar and the
treasuries market but you know from a US
economy point of view you know big tax
cuts coming through that might be good
for the economy good for businesses so
the bank's commentary I think will play
into that as well
>> and what they say about the US consumer
right are people still spending
>> absolutely the the they're the big banks
are also the big credit card companies
and we'll see if if people are still
flashing the plastic and and also paying
it back uh after after they flash it
>> flashing the plastic
But another thing that I think is is
kind of market opening up those animal
spirits in the market is what's going on
in crypto and in the US the US House is
planning to have crypto week this
upcoming week. They are still so the
Senate passed the Genius Act which is
going to regulate stable coins. The
House hasn't taken it up yet. But what
do you think I mean? What do you think
that that that the bullish spirit around
crypto kind of bleeds through to the
rest of the market? It feels like animal
spirits are back, right? Companies that
don't even have profits have been doing
really well in this environment. Crypto
has been on a tear. Robin Hood stock, as
we chatted about recently, has has done
so well this year. It's up more than
100% this year. And I think it got
another boost recently, right, when it
said that it was going to offer these
tokenized stocks and give people the
opportunity to purchase
>> stakes in private companies, um, like AI
companies and a few others out there. So
yeah, I think animal spirits are just
back in a big way and and this is one
example of that. It's been really
interesting to see just the desire for
gambling in financial markets this year
at a time when we have seen some of the
biggest swings for the stock market
really of the past decade. Like people
are still trading options, people are
still trading stocks, maybe they might
buy into these tokenized stocks or trade
in the prediction market. So that's
that's been really good for businesses
like Robin Hood. Well, and I've got news
for you on one of the oldest forms of
sort of market gambling. The IPO market
is kind of coming back this year.
>> Oh, finally.
>> Finally.
>> I feel like people have been saying that
for a while.
>> Well, so obviously 2021 was was a
ludicrous year. There were almost 400 US
IPOs uh that year thereabouts. Um and
this year uh through you know through
very recently we've got you know about a
hundred. And so if you, you know,
project that out for the rest of the
year, that's 200 IPO year for the US,
which would put it as really one of the
better years, you know, not just it
would be the best year since 2021, but
also just one of the better years of the
past decade in terms of the number of
deals.
>> Well, are we seeing those big one-day
pops that we've seen in the past?
>> Yes, IPO pops. There have been some of
those. Uh Circle, the stablecoin
company. Uh obviously with everything
going on with um uh the Genius Act on
Capitol Hill, people are pretty excited
about stable coins. So Circle has been a
bit of a rocket ship. And I get into
what's going on in the IPO market uh
with Arno Blanchard. He is the global
head of equity capital markets at Morgan
Stanley. Morgan Stanley is a bank that
does a lot of IPOs. So it's a really
interesting conversation and we're going
to have that after the break.
So this year we're having a bit of kind
of a comeback for for the IPO uh
particularly in the US. And so you know
Arno Blanchard, you're the global head
of equity capital markets at Morgan
Stanley. Morgan Stanley seems like it's
always in or around all of the big IPOs.
Um certainly it's a name that's come up
for probably every IPO that you can name
or remember over the last several years.
Morgan Stanley's been around it. So um
what's happening this year is is the IPO
market back would you say?
>> I think it's definitely coming back. Um
and there are a few parameters I look at
to assess the health of the IPO market
and I think as the micro environment
changed in 2022
um it became a much slower year for
IPOs.
>> What was the thing that changed? Why why
did that
>> Fed policy change in valuation interest
rates stock prices being like much more
depressed postcoid
>> so I think it led to a year in 2022
where we had I think 20 IPOs which was
very low the following year 2023 30 IPOs
uh since 2024 we've definitely seen a
comeback uh where last year we had about
60 IPOs and this year despite the pause
we experienced in April um we're on
track so far for similar number. So,
it's definitely been a comeback. Um, I
think there are three things I look at
to assess how healthy the IPO market is.
Um, number one is volume and that
picking up. Number two, which is even
more interesting, is the quality of
shareholders that buy IPOs.
>> Um, who's around the stories, who's
deploying capital into new stories. And
that has improved pretty meaningfully
over the last 18 months.
>> Interesting. That's not something we can
see. That's something that's that's
easier for you to to tell us about.
>> That's right. So mutual funds, pension
funds, large long only, sovereign wealth
funds, people with long duration of
investment and a true fundamental
analysis behind it uh are coming back to
the market u pretty aggressively. And
the third thing I look at is what type
of stories are we actually bringing to
the market. In 2022, 2023, you saw a lot
of more defensive stories, things that
would work in virtually every market.
Um, what we
>> kind of evergreen companies, not
necessarily the the big hyperrowth
companies,
>> more like value defensive. Correct. The
type of stories we're bringing to market
those days is much more diverse. You see
growth, you see hyperrowth, you see a
variety of sectors, a variety of size.
So that breadth of IPO story shows me
how uh much better the IPO market is
today than it was two years ago.
>> Yeah, it seems like, you know, just
looking at the list of the biggest deals
this year, the the diversity is pretty
interesting, right? The the the biggest
US IPO of the year is a is a natural gas
company, right? Uh Venture Global, then
you've got Coreweave, which is a big AI
uh story. um sale point, you know, a
tech company, circle, stable coins, um
Chime, the Neo Bank, E Toro, which is uh
like a retail trading platform. So, is
there anything through those deals that
you see that is thematic that's
representative of like what investors
want or like the kinds of companies that
are ready to go?
>> I think there are probably a few sectors
that are very topical today and that's
driving that level of issuance. Number
one, you mentioned core. I think
anything that's AI or AI enabling is
definitely being really well received by
the market. That's number one. Number
two, you mentioned tech. It's always
been a big part of the IPO market. Um,
and we're seeing a resurgence of tech
IPOs uh over the last 12 months.
Fintech, health tech, so tech broadly
defined. The third one that might
surprise you, but that actually makes
sense in this market uh is aerospace and
defense.
>> Oh, right. uh you see the Voyager IPO,
you see the LOR IPO, Standard Arrow. So
those names in the broadly defined
aerospace and defense um have come in
size and have performed pretty well.
>> Is that because government spending is
is up and and of course like I I think
you know we've talked about this in
previous episodes in Europe there's a
sense that Europe has to sort of
remilitarize you know as as the US wants
to spend less kind of defending other
countries. Is that is that what drives
that defense sector? Yeah, there's
government spending and I also think
there's a perception from investors that
geopolitical risk is here to stay and so
I think that uh that tends to favor A&D
companies.
>> Okay.
>> Um but then the other question you had
which is uh what makes a good IPO
candidate in this market away from
sectors. I think there are a few
attributes that investors are really
looking for in this market. Um number
one is what I call durable growth. So we
moved away from growth at all cost,
hyperrowth companies and now investors
are more focused on companies that have
the ability to deliver growth uh in a
market that has a lot of volatility. So
durable, resilient growth that works
really well.
>> I guess you wouldn't want to buy a
company uh that that relies on a certain
kind of import that might have a
completely different tariff level in 6
months than it does today. You want to
make sure that you're buying into
something that isn't vulnerable to that.
>> That's right. something that is highly
levered to one input of growth is a
little bit less appealing to investors.
That's something that has multiple
levers to deliver on growth. So that's
number one. Number two, um investors
like companies with a large addressable
market i.e. they have the ability to
gain share over time um and support
their growth. Um, and the third thing I
would say is any company we bring to
market that has a real competitive
advantage versus their peers, either
disrupting an industry or a unique way
to approach a market, I think that's
very differentiated. So whether you're
durable growth, you have a large
addressable market and a real
competitive edge, those three elements
uh are very very interesting to
investors. What would you say investors
should should be taking away from the
kind of, you know, bounceback in
activity that we've been having? What
should that tell investors about what's
going on in the markets and and what's
going on in corporate boardrooms?
>> Sure. I think it tells a few things.
Number one, it shows that the ability
for, and I'm talking about the US,
companies to continue to offer exciting
growth opportunities for investors is
there. Um, number two, they should know
that the way we execute those IPOs today
is very different than 10 or 15 years
ago. By the time an IPO goes public,
there's been a lot of work behind the
scenes before that. Discussion with
investors, discussion with site visits.
So, by the time an IPO hits the market,
um, they've been pretty derisked. So, I
think that's a little bit of a change
versus how we did IPO.
>> They've heard everybody's criticisms and
and
They kind of know where the market's
going to be.
>> Correct. What they should know versus
2021 too is those IPOs today are really
strongly backed by fundamental
investors, people who have done a lot of
work, met with the company, do deep
fundamental analysis. Um, and I think
that's um that's very healthy for the
market. Um, but I'm going to go back to
your first point. Yes, the IPO market is
very sentiment driven, very momentum
driven. It's a high alpha type of
product. So when there is a market that
is skewed toward growth and investment,
it tend to favor IPO for sure. When the
market becomes more volatile or risk
adverse, uh the IPOs are the the one
that get a bit more challenging to
execute. And you can see that earlier
this quarter, right? Um we had high
expectation that it would be a strong
IPO year overall. Um and then when the
market correction happened post tariffs
in April
>> um I think a lot of those processes got
put on pause and then the market came
back we saw this very interesting
dynamic where issuers who had some plans
to access the market seeing how
attractive valuations were uh are very
focused on not missing this window. So
we see a number of issuers coming back
to the market pretty aggressively and on
the flip side investors who probably had
missed a little bit of the V-shaped
recovery we saw in May uh are very
focused on deploying capital. So those
two elements is what drives the current
health of the IPO market.
>> And so let's let's dig into a little bit
of how how deals have performed because
there are a couple of things that I
think are interesting about that. Number
one is that that the journal recently
reported that a number of companies that
have gone public have done so at what in
the business are known as down rounds.
Meaning that they were valued privately
>> way up here and then when they go public
they go public at a price that implies
kind of a lower valuation than what they
were valued privately.
>> What do you think that tells us about
the market that companies are willing to
to do deals at those kind of lower
public prices? I think that's a
reflection of the broader market. Some
companies that have raised private
capital at very very elevated valuation
uh during co uh have come to realize
that right now the valuation levels that
it can achieve might be at a discount to
this. Um I think companies are okay with
this um assuming that they have real
long-term investors behind it. What's
important for a company when they go
public um is yes the valuation that is
set at the IPO but more importantly are
they attracting investors who going to
support them through the life cycle of
the company are they going to be there
where they need to raise additional
capital so that's important number two
um yes day one IPO price is important
more importantly how does that perform
three to six months down the road and I
think that's a better barometer for them
of success than just looking at where
they last raised capital and why they're
raising capital today.
>> And how do companies feel about the pop?
Right? This is a phenomenon well known
in IPOs where the company prices the IPO
at one price, it jumps up to a higher
price in the in the market after that.
Sometimes it goes way above that, right?
We've seen one deal recently, uh,
Circle, right? The stable coin issuer,
you know, their stock has just gone up
up up since they they they sold it. It
seems like not necessarily every day,
but it's up it's up pretty
substantially. Is that a successful deal
for for companies that makes them want
to keep coming back even though in
theory some would argue that they could
have sold their stock for a higher
price? How do you think that affects the
market when you see some of these
everybody's piling into these stocks
after they go public? Is that good for
the IPO market?
>> I think some um good performance on the
first day is important and that's a good
sign. Some outsized performance on day
one I think is less of an indicator. U
once again I think people want the good
branding and I understand it real I
understand it creates a lot of good
media around the name which is good once
again the sophisticated users of our
market uh and the issuers they're more
focused on where is it going in a couple
of months who's behind and buying do I
get some really strong mutual funds with
conviction who have the ability to
deploy capital over time uh those two
are probably more important to them than
the technical pop on day So, it's it's
something that's happening a little bit
behind the scenes of like who's
participating in these deals that's
really telling you
>> that the market is healthy and not so
much what what we might see in the price
action after market.
>> That's right.
>> What about retail investors? I know that
there have been a number of companies
like Robin Hood and others that have
tried to offer investors access to IPOs.
That is to to buy into the IPO. Anybody
can buy an IPO once it starts trading.
But to get into that deal and to
participate in that whole process, would
you say that retail investors are
playing a bigger role in the market now
than they were a couple of years ago
about the same? I mean, historically, I
think it's in the 5 to 10% range is
typical sort of retail participation,
you know, small investors for an IPO. Is
that kind of where it still is?
>> I think that's still the right ballpark.
I would tell you retail is an important
part of the success of an IPO for a lot
of different reasons. Uh at Morgan
Stanley, we have the number one retail
platform in the US and I think that
gives us a competitive edge. They tend
to be big in IPOs. They tend to be early
and they tend to be active buyers in the
aftermarket and so I think those three
elements make the retail pool of capital
uh pretty helpful to IPOs.
>> Yes.
>> Now another big part of the market is
all these private companies, right? We
we we talk a lot on this show, you know,
in general in the journal about the
number of companies that are staying
private longer.
>> Sometimes that's like a startup company
that just sort of delays its IPO for a
long time, but sometimes those are like
big established companies that are owned
by private equity funds.
>> There's a lot of talk of exits. It's
hard for those companies to get exits.
We've written a lot about the the
challenge that private equity firms have
have had finding exits for those
companies. One of the big exit pathways
is IPOs.
>> Does that tell us that there's a lot of
pentup demand for IPOs? Or does it tell
us that the IPO market isn't that sort
of great of an exit path for a lot of
these companies because maybe the public
market isn't willing to pay what they
think the company's worth. It just seems
like that's a complicating part of the
market these days.
>> Interesting. Um, I have a slightly
different take on it.
>> Okay.
>> Um, I would say you're right. The
private market uh has been very robust
um especially over the last two to three
years. It's flexible capital um you have
a number of investors who invest in
privates of course private equity but
sovereign wealth fund pension fund and
some public dedicated investors who have
set up some private funds. So there's a
lot of demand it's flexible and I think
it allows companies to stay private for
longer uh while accessing the market. I
still think at the end of the day a
number of those companies will come
public
>> um because um the access to the public
equity markets is really strong and very
helpful the acquisition currency the
branding so I still think that um IPOs
is going to be the um u the end result
of many of those processes but they're
not mutually exclusive
>> interesting
>> I think it just gives corporates uh more
flexibility and option as they think
about raising capital between private
and public and you'll see a number of
the IPOs we're bringing to market have
had several rounds of private capital
raise preo um and I think on the sponsor
side on the private equity side yes they
do have a number of assets
>> that have become relatively large uh and
that would definitely be ready for the
IPO market uh private equity uh are very
financially sophisticated investors they
realize that the IPO market um is
healthier And so there's definitely a
pick up in dialogue on that. Another
pathway to raising money, especially for
private companies that's sort of come up
recently, is this idea of like tokenized
sort of stock offerings, right, where um
a platform like again like a Robin Hood
or something might offer you a token
that represents ownership in a private
company. Um do you think the tokenized
offering a competitor to the IPO in the
years ahead?
>> I don't think so. I think the same
comment I would make about um the
private market and the public market not
being mutually exclusive. U I think if
it's not the manner of sale for private
companies, sure I still think at the end
of the day after multiple rounds of um
private capital raise have been
performed. The appeal of an IPO with the
acquisition currency and the branding
and the access to markets um is still
likely to be the same. So I don't think
it's going to change the game
meaningfully. We're going to take a
quick break and when we come back we've
got one last question for Arno Blanchard
of Morgan Stanley.
So Arno again global head of equity
capital markets at Morgan Stanley. So
you oversee the big global IPO business.
So we've got one last question for you
in 30 seconds or less. What would it
take for the IPO market to ever get back
to those 2021 highs? I think it's going
to be pretty challenging for the IPO
market to go back to the 2021 highs. I
think the combination of very elevated
valuation levels in equity, the very low
interest rate environment and the fact
that people were deploying a lot of
capital into equities in general made
this euphoria of IPOs in 2021. So, I
think that's probably a high bar. Um but
between where we are today and when we
were called it in 2018 2019 pre-COVID uh
there's still some room to uh to see a
pick up in activity.
>> All right. So we've picked up not quite
at 2021 but maybe we'll never get back
to that or at least not for a long time.
That doesn't mean that we can't still
have
>> a very healthy market.
>> Pretty good market.
>> That's right.
>> In the meantime.
>> All right. Well Arno, thanks so much for
joining us. This has been great.
>> Thanks for having me.
[Music]
Am I supposed to hear your friend?
>> No, you're not. No, I was I was about to
tell you that cuz sometimes Yeah.
Sometimes you'll see me like kind of and
you might be wondering what's going on.
>> Um that's just we we talk about you
privately.
>> Yeah. Behind my back. I love it.
Exactly.
[Music]